                                                                            #Abstract

Background: The healthcare sector always carries the risk of medical errors. When illnesses are diagnosed incorrectly or even delayed, many lives are to be in danger. As a result, a fast, accurate, and automated system for medical diagnosis can be extremely beneficial to doctors and to the whole healthcare system. The goal of this project is to use Artificial Intelligence (AI) to build Medical Diagnostic Models (MDMs). In this project we are focusing on COVID-19 because, of the global influence it had.

Methods: From three different feature spaces (Symptoms, Laboratory, and Imaging), there are six datasets considered in our research project: 1) The Israeli Ministry of Health Dataset. 2) COVID-19 and Influenza Patients Dataset. 3) Albert Einstein Hospital, Brazil Dataset. 4) Italian Society of Medical Radiology Dataset. 5) COVID-19 Chest Xray Dataset. 6) COVID-19 Radiography Database. Using such datasets, we built seven diagnostic Machine Learning (ML) based models to diagnose COVID-19 infected individuals. The used ML algorithms are: 1) Logistic Regression (LR). 2) Support Vector Machine (SVM). 3) K-Nearest Neighbors (KNN). 4) Naïve Bayes (NB). 5) Decision Tree (DT). 6) Random Forest (RF). 7) eXtreme Gradient Boosting (XGB). We evaluated the diagnostic models by using three metrics, which are: precision, recall, and f1-score.

Results: With f1-scores ranging from 46% to 92%, precision ranging from 55% to 92%, and recall ranging from 53% to 92%, our models performed differently across datasets and feature spaces. Our top model built using the COVID-19 and Influenza Patients Dataset, and the RF classifier, with precision, recall and f1-score of 92%.

Conclusion: Our work, beside related works, have showed that a diagnostic model that mimics clinicians' decision-making with high experience will reduce the chances of diagnostic errors and the likelihood of patients' medical conditions deteriorating.
